.TH MLX-MKBFB 1 "June 2020"
.SH NAME
mlx-mkbfb \- Create, dump, check, and update BlueField BFB files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mlx-mkbfb
.RB [ \-\-help | \-h ]
.PP
.B mlx-mkbfb
[options...]
.RI [ INFILE(S)... ]
.I OUTFILE
.PP
.B mlx-mkbfb
.RB -[ x | d | c ]
[options...]
.I INFILE
.PP
.B mlx-mkbfb
.B -f
.I VERSION
[options...]
.I INFILE
.I OUTFILE
.SH DESCRIPTION
BFB (BlueField Bootstream) files are used to boot BlueField SoCs. These files
consist of firmware images, kernel images, kernel arguments, and sometimes
an entire initramfs. These files are used to boot the system, either getting
pushed over the rshim device, or installed directly to one of two eMMC boot
partitions. To install to or dump BFB files from the eMMC, use
.BR mlxbf\-bootctl (8).
.PP
When not using \-x, \-d, \-c, or \-f,
.B mlx-mkbfb
will use each INFILE and images specified by
.B Image Options
to build a new BFB, and write it to OUTFILE. Later images will replace
preceding ones. Take the following example:
.PP
.RS
.B mlx-mkbfb
.I infile1.bfb
.I infile2.bfb
.BI \-\-bl2= bl2.bin
.I outfile.bfb
.PP
.RE
If the image bl31 exists in
.I infile1.bfb
and
.IR infile2.bfb ,
then the bl31 image contained in
.I infile2.bfb
will be emitted to
.IR outfile.bfb.
On the other hand, since the argument
.B \-\-bl2
is specified,
.I bl2.bin
will replace any bl2 image contained in either
.I infile1.bfb
or
.IR infile2.bfb .
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-d | --dump"
Print a listing of images inside INFILE.
.IP "-x | --extract"
Extract all images from INFILE and write to files in the current directory.
.IP "-c | --check"
Check the integrity of INFILE.
.IP "-p | --prefix PREFIX"
Prefix for files extracted by \-x, default is "dump\-".
.IP "-f | --filter VERSION"
Filter away all images from INFILE that are not needed to boot VERSION.
This will remove images with versions higher than VERSION, and also remove any
images that are overridden with a later version. By default this is done
carefully, so that at least one compatible image is present in OUTFILE per ID
in INFILE.
.IP "-s | --strip VERSION"
Modifies -f. Instead of filtering out everything unneeded, only filter out the
version specified by VERSION. Note that -s and -f may be different versions.
.IP "--no-careful"
Modifies -f. Disables "careful" image preservation, so that everything matching
the -s/-f filter is removed. Resulting images will likely not boot on their
own.
.IP "-v | --verbose"
Provide more verbose output.
.IP "-e | --expert"
Expert mode. Orders images within OUTFILE to match the order they are specified
on the command line by
.BR "Image Options" .
This option cannot be used with -x, -d, or -c.
.PP
.B Image Options
.PP
When running without options \-d, \-x, or \-c, image options control which images
are added to OUTFILE. All image options are of one of the following forms:
.PP
.RS
.BI \-\-image-name= IMAGE
.br
.BI \-\-image-name-v0= IMAGE
.br
.BI \-\-image-name-v1= IMAGE
.PP
.RE
If no version (v0/v1) is specified, 0 is the default. The versions reflect
which platform the image is meant for, v0 for BlueField 1 and v1 for BlueField
2. IMAGE is the path to the desired image. If IMAGE begins with "=", IMAGE will
be taken as a literal string and inserted directly into the BFB file, minus the
leading "=". For example,
.PP
.RS
.BR \-\-boot\-args= "'=debug isolcpus=10'"
.PP
.RE
will insert those arguments into the BFB, and use them to boot the
kernel image.
.PP
The list of image options is quite large. To see an up-to-date list of images
supported by the BFB format, run
.PP
.RS
mlx-mkbfb
.B \-\-help
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mlxbf-bootctl (8)
